[SWOOSH]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> I'm Dr. Theresa Bullard, and
this is "Mystery Teachings."
[MUSIC PLAYING]
We use many different
tools and methods
to accomplish our goals in
life, and yet so often we
fall short or get stuck.
Is there such a thing
as a roadmap to life?
And when it comes to
the study of Kabbalah,
there are many different
benefits in our lives.
It helps to organize the mind.
It's one of the fastest ways
to eliminate the subconscious
backlog that fuels
our negative ego.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
It helps us to master the
process of manifestation
and more powerfully
accomplish our goals.
It helps us to deepen
our connection to source
and recognize our gifts
and know who we truly are.
And that all sounded great
to me when I first heard it.
And yet, I was also
a little skeptical
that any one system could do
that much on so many levels.
But regardless of what
my mind thought about it,
I had this intuitive call, a
deeper feeling within my soul,
that I needed to pursue it.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
I was in my PhD
studies at the time,
and I'd been
attending astrophysics
lectures on big bang cosmology.
And at the same time, I just
started reading Kabbalah books.
And very quickly,
I became impressed
with the number of parallels I
found in Kabbalistic writings
about their cosmology
and the story of creation
and how similar it was to
modern astrophysical theories.
They used different
words and metaphors,
but the core essence
was the same.
I thought if Kabbalist have
known this for thousands
of years and modern science
is just coming around to it,
what else can we
learn from Kabbalah?
[MUSIC PLAYING]
So I decided to take the leap
into the universal Kabbalah
ascension journey to see
what else it had to reveal.
I was in it more for the
knowledge and deeper concepts
at first.
But along the way, we were
asking ourselves questions
like who am I, what are my
gifts, where did I come from,
where am I going, and
what's my purpose?
And this brought
me to a point where
I started looking at
the deeper truths,
the state of my
relationships in my life,
and how I react to things.
And I really started looking
at myself through the journey.
And the universal
Kabbalah system
guides us through
a spiritual alchemy
process of accelerated
personal transformation.
And I honestly can say
that without the training
and immersion into
that ascension
journey up the tree of life,
I wouldn't have even known
what the right questions
were to ask myself.
Now the word Kabbalah
means to receive.
It's about receiving
knowledge and illumination
by first asking
the right questions
and then having those
answers revealed to us.
But in order to receive
the knowledge that
will best serve us,
we need to learn
to ask the right questions.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Our progression really depends
on gaining the knowledge that's
going to serve us in such a way
that we can directly apply it
to life.
Knowledge for the sake of
knowledge doesn't serve us.
What we're seeking is knowledge
that leads towards progression.
And, ultimately, all
knowledge is within.
We just need to unlock it and
accept the true knowledge that
is already within us.
So what are the right questions?
Well, the right questions
are ultimately about life.
They're the ones that awaken
us to more of our potential
so that we can master
our gifts and create
the life we're born to live.
The teachings delivered
through the Kabbalistic system
are meant to help us expand our
concepts and mental framework
of what's possible and true.
We all have purpose to
fulfill, and we're here
to live a joyful
and meaningful life.
And what I discovered was
that all those benefits
Kabbalah talks about are things
that we find inside ourselves.
It becomes a deep
journey into our own soul
to reclaim who we
truly are and the life
we're meant to be living.
And it's like an
exciting expedition
to rediscover our true power.
Now they say that Kabbalah
sets forces in motion that
have otherwise been
dormant, meaning
it catalyzes that
transformational process
and keeps it moving forward.
And through ascending
the tree of life,
it raises our
vibration step by step
from a life consumed by
just the physical to one
where we've reclaimed
our divinity.
How is the Kabbalistic process
able to catalyze our evolution
like this?
Well, one way to think
of it is to compare it
to how lasers work
in a science lab.
If we take a high powered
laser and we beam it directly
onto an object,
it obliterates it.
It completely fries it.
So what we need to do
instead is to send it
through a course of optics.
And these optical
lenses and mirrors act
as filters to reduce, redirect,
and tune the frequency
and intensity of the light.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Now these filters bring it
into the right amount of light
so that it delivers the desired
power to the destination.
And this process of redirecting
the light back and forth
through the lenses
is a good model
for what happens with
the tree of life.
All light and energy comes from
the highest infinite source
called Ain Soph in Kabbalah.
And the light is intensely
powerful and limitless.
So it needs to be reduced
before coming down
into this physical density.
And this happens
through the operation
of the spheres on
the tree of life
which act like mirrored lenses
that filter and then ultimately
deliver the light
into the physical.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
If all of those
lenses and filters
are in perfect order in
their original integrity,
then the proper amount
of light is delivered.
But we often have a situation
where these lenses are not
in their perfect state.
They're warped or cracked.
They have dark
splotches on them.
Instead of the light flowing
down the way it's supposed to,
it gets blocked and distorted.
And by the time it
reaches the physical,
it's a pale shadow of
what it should have been.
And what we want to
do is clean this up.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
How do we do this?
Well, as we go through
the journey of ascension,
we're guided through a process
of repairing the lenses so
that the light can flow
through unobstructed.
And we do this by
following what's
called the path of the flaming
sword or the lightning bolt
sequence only when we're
ascending the tree of life.
We start at the bottom
and work our way up.
Because at the bottom is where
we live our physical life from.
It's where we're at.
So we start here, and we
work our way up step by step.
And we're essentially
retracing the steps
that the light flows on
its way down from source.
And as we retrace our steps,
we can repair, clean up,
and heal each component
of our tree of life.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
And when we come to
the top were then
able to tap into
that limitless light.
And through the
journey, we've also
prepared ourselves to have a
face-to-face direct experience
with that original light.
And as we tap back
into it, it then
starts to flow down through
our tree in a more integris way
again.
So there's a dual
action happening here.
We're ascending and
cleaning up the vessels.
And as we do this, our
ability to manifest our light
into the world becomes
more powerful and clear.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
On any spiritual path,
it's important to remember
that we are also here
to have a physical life.
So we want to be physical
and spiritual in our approach
to life.
It's about finding the balance.
But so much of our
life has gotten
caught up in just this
physical experience.
And because of
that, we're living
in the matrix, so to speak.
And a large majority of our
attention, time, and energy
goes into our existence
here in the physical.
But this is such a pale
shade of who we are
and what we're supposed to
be living and experiencing.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Our physical life should
be like a heaven on Earth,
but that can only
happen when we find
that proper balance between
the physical and spiritual
and then further awaken
our greater potential.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Everything we know of and
experience with our five senses
is in this physical
density and is
at the bottom of the tree of
life in what we call malchut.
What is malchut?
Well, it's the last sefirot.
And it's all about the four
elements, the sensory world,
and physicality.
It's about grounding
the final form
and bringing completion
to the creative cycle.
But here's the key.
It's the result of things
happening higher in the tree.
It's not the cause.
Scientific thinking
focuses on the cause
as always happening
in the physical
because scientists
generally don't believe
there's anything beyond.
But according to
Kabbalah, manifestation
is the final result of what's
happening higher in the tree.
And the original cause
isn't here in malchut.
So if we're getting stuck in
the process of accomplishing
our goals and we're
not liking the results,
then we need to usually
look beyond malchut,
beyond the physical
for the cause.
If we want to change
something that's
happening in our physical life,
journeying up the tree of life
brings awareness to the
fullness of who we are.
We get into alignment with
our divinity and awareness
of what's going on
in our blueprint.
And so we start to see
where the distortions are.
And We do this journey
through a process known
as ascending the tree of life.
Now what do we
mean by ascension?
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Well, ascension is
about raising vibration.
It's also about becoming
more multi-dimensional
and expanded in our awareness
to go from living life
in what we call this three
dimensional awareness to living
multi-dimensionally.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Now what exactly does that mean?
Well, our existence extends
far beyond this physicality.
So to ascend is not
to leave the body
but to take the body with
us and expand our awareness
and ability to perceive
more of the full reality.
We raise the vibration of
the physical as we ascend,
and we expand and
open up to embody more
of our greater
spiritual essence here
in this physical experience.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Now most people are only
focusing on the physical,
and they're basing
their foundation
on ego and personality.
They're not operating
from their true self.
When we ascend, it's ultimately
about reclaiming the true self
and living from that level
of awareness day by day.
Ascension is similar to
the concept of entrainment
where we have this capacity
to vibrate or resonate
at many different
frequency levels.
But here in the physical,
we tend to primarily vibrate
at a dense level.
It's a very slow vibration.
If we want to raise
our vibration,
we need to introduce a
higher frequency source that
can act as a catalyst
and driver to entrain us
to a whole new level.
And in this way, we step up
the spectrum of vibration.
Now if you try to
jump up the spectrum,
it's more difficult
to sustain that.
So we're gradually
turning up the heat
rather than trying
to do it all at once.
And we go through this
process of ascension.
And, ultimately, our goal is to
awaken the whole tree of life.
And we want to bring our
consciousness into wholeness
and gain access to the
entire pattern rather than
just a few pieces of it.
This isn't about
studying the tree.
It's about living it.
Each level of the tree
holds a different frequency
and a different set of energies
that we attune ourselves into.
So by starting in malchut,
the physical kingdom,
we're basically talking about
our life and all the results
of our life.
This includes our fitness and
health level, where we live,
how we flow abundance,
and whether we're
living the life that we
envision for ourselves or not.
It's all the practical,
tangible stuff of life.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Then we set a vision for what
we want our life to look like.
What would your life
look like if you
were living your full potential
and accomplishing your goals
not just from ego but from
being aligned with your greater
purpose and true self?
And what's getting in the way
of you realizing that vision?
The journey of ascending
the tree of life
is about setting these forces
in motion to clear the blocks
and support the manifestation
of our ultimate life.
Now as we ascend
beyond malchut, we
move into the next
level of the tree.
The lower triad corresponds with
what we call our lower self.
It includes our personality
and the way our mind works.
It's also our emotions
and intellectual side.
It's both the IQ and the EQ.
It's also our subconscious
patterns and habitual
way of life.
And here we start
taking a look at where
we've created attachments.
Whether it's
mentally, emotionally,
or in relationships,
we start asking
where have I created
attachments that aren't serving?
Where do we have attachments
that pull my energy?
And where do I
give my power away?
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Now on the other hand, we
also ask where am I strong?
What are my gifts and talents?
What do I need to do to
achieve a greater balance?
And we start to
see where we're out
of balance between our left
and our right brain functions,
between the logic
and the intuition
and where there might
be cracks or imbalances
in our foundation.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
This is all the lower self
and the personality level
of the tree of life.
Now before we go
any further, let
me clarify that the lower
self and the personality
are two different things.
Contrary to what many think,
the personality is not needed.
It's often misunderstood
as a good thing,
but here we're defining
the personality
as the learned behaviors and
coping mechanisms that we've
been programmed with in life.
It becomes the
masks that we wear,
so it's not our true self.
Now the problem is we've
adopted these coping strategies
because they've worked for us.
But we develop them
within a limited context.
They're not really
serving us because they
get in the way of
our full potential.
How so?
Well, our coping
strategies and masks
filter or hide who
we really are inside.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Our true self is our
individuality, which
is different from personality.
But maybe we're insecure
or afraid to be ourselves.
[VOCALIZING]
We have attachments to how
people may perceive and judge
us, and so we hold back and
develop these personality
masks.
This in turn ends up
distorting and filtering
this part of the tree of
life with our subconscious
attachments.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Now when we talk about the
splotches on the lenses
or the cracks in
the mirrors, this
is the personality stuff
that's fueled by negative ego.
It limits what we can
accomplish because we're
holding onto these
fears and attachments.
And to clean this up, we must
let go of the attachments
and begin to remember where
we form these belief systems
or behaviors in the first place.
We must tell ourselves the
truth about what we believe
and then reassess whether
that's true or not.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
And when we start to
ask these questions,
it's about evaluating
whether we're living life
with integrity or not.
We want to let go of the
ways in which we resist
our own progression or engage
in negative emotional dynamics
with people.
And a big part of the
journey of ascension
is about really
looking at all of this
and cleaning it up as we go.
We're unearthing it
from the subconscious
and becoming more aware.
We're reassessing
and evaluating it
in order to bring a greater
balance and stability
to this lower triad
of the tree of life.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
And as we do, our lower
self becomes more and more
a true reflection or more
transparent to our higher self.
What's the intended
role of the lower self?
Does it have any
positive aspects to it?
Well, yes, the
lower self is meant
to take that light, the
visions, and creative energy
flowing in from the higher
self and organize it.
It's the functions of our
mind that put more detail
into our creative process.
It functions both artistically
and at a very practical level
as well.
It's the part of us that has
the ability to focus and harness
the creative energies
in order to bring them
into physical manifestation.
Now the operations at this
part of the tree of life
are really magical.
We're meant to
create powerfully.
We're meant to harness
our mind and tap
into passion and creativity.
We're meant to have
a strong foundation
to make things
happen in this world.
So we call this
the realm of magic,
magic being the process
of taking those energies
from the higher realms
and flowing them down
into the physical to
actually manifest.
We're not talking about
Harry Potter style
of magic but real
magic that happens
through our creative efforts
and the work of harnessing
our skills and our mind.
And, yet, it can defy logic.
When we learn to master this
level of the tree of life,
our ability to make things
happen can seem miraculous.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Now this lower triad involves
harnessing our practical self,
interfacing with the world,
creating, manifesting,
and making things happen.
We can live a magical life when
we clean up our personality
and get this part
of the tree of life
to be in a state of
balance and integrity.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Next, we come to the
midpoint on the tree of life,
and this brings us into
tiferet, which means beauty.
Tiferet is the
middle of the tree.
It mediates between the
above and the below.
It's the point of union between
our lower self and our higher
self.
And what's amazing
about the sefirot
is that every other sphere on
the tree of life except malchut
is directly
connected to tiferet.
When we first encountered this
part of the tree, the focus,
though, is about healing.
Now on this journey, we're
discovering and unearthing
new levels of awareness.
We're realizing the blocks
or the mental and emotional
attachments that get in the way.
And as we come to this greater
self-awareness and realization,
and we reach a point where we
need to heal the old patterns
and the wounds that cause those
attachments in the first place.
So we start by asking,
why am I this way?
When did this first start?
What beliefs got established,
and are they really true?
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Now the part of us
that needs healing
is often connected with what
we call the inner child.
It has to do with the
distortions and the hurts that
came in during childhood.
And these were due
to traumas or events
that we didn't know how
to understand at the time.
And now from our
adult self today, we
might look back and say, well,
that wasn't such a big deal.
But from the child's
perspective, it was a big deal.
And we listen to an honor
that child's experience,
and then we bring in love,
nurturing, and self-care,
and we can begin to help our
inner child heal and move on.
We start to recognize the
beauty within and reclaim
our self-worth and confidence.
This is typically
the first stage
of our experience in tiferet.
But it has so many
other influences
flowing into it from
all the other parts
of the tree of life.
So it doesn't stop there.
Tiferet is very dynamic.
There's a lot
happening here, and we
go through very different phases
at this part of the journey.
The first phase is that healing,
nurturing, and reclaiming joy.
And in this process, we
also start to connect more
with our higher self.
But the second phase
of tiferet Fred
has to do with sacrifice
and understanding
the need for sacrifice.
Here we're talking
about sacrificing
the lesser for the
greater or letting
go of the old ways of being
that hold us back in order
to create room for the new.
Now sometimes it's
friendships or maybe places
we used to hang out or
daily habits that we had.
But we realize that these
relationships or habits just
aren't in alignment anymore.
And we sacrifice and
we let go of these
in order to move forward
towards our greater potential.
And, hopefully,
we can find a way
to do so with poise and grace.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Sacrifice can be hard
when we get hung up
on the sense of
loss or attachment.
A healing comes
through here again
to support us with that
letting go process,
and this frees us up to
rise to something greater
and more true to our soul.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Now the third
phase of tiferet is
to become like the
ascended king or queen,
meaning we start to thrive
in our sense of alignment
with our true self, our
worth, and our divinity.
We step more into a phase of
self-leadership in our life,
and we begin to embody
our higher self more.
We embrace a greater sense
of dignity and nobility
in our life.
And that's not to say that
we've fully mastered it
at this stage, but we're
making great strides
towards getting there.
And the full attainment
of this comes later
after completing the journey
all the way up the tree of life.
Now the virtue that
we seek to cultivate
at this stage of the
journey is called devotion
to the great work.
And what does that mean?
Well, this is a
deep inner devotion
to continuing forward on
our path of progression
despite any obstacles that
we may face until we truly
reclaim our divinity.
It's to reach our full
potential not just
settling for what's
good enough or settling
for any kind of mediocrity
but rather to be the greatest
that we can be.
We move forward with
an attitude of I'm
committed to completing
this journey no matter what.
And I'm going to
keep going until I
become the best I can be.
It's also not a one time thing.
We can always continue
growing and evolving
at the next level meaning
devotion to the great work
becomes a way of life that
embraces constant growth
and progression.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
It's kind of like the
Japanese principle of kaizen
which means making
changes for the better.
Only here we're talking about
spiritual inner improvement
rather than just outer ones.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
This is the path to
self-mastery which
is needed in order to accomplish
our greater service and purpose
in this world.
It's not selfish to
strive towards this
because ultimately it's
about how we can better
serve the whole.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Now before we move on, let's
summarize this bottom half
of the tree and
give it some context
that we're more familiar with.
The lower part of the
tree is very practical,
and most people have their
focus on these realms.
For those who are just
focused on the physical,
well, then they're
stuck in malchut.
But many have stepped onto
this path of personal growth
and are trying to improve
their inner life as well.
Maybe they're exploring
dreams in the psychology
of the subconscious, or they're
advancing in their skill sets
in mental and emotional healing.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
There are many tools and
approaches in our world today
that can be used to support
such personal growth.
And what's so powerful
about Kabbalah,
though, is that
there are tools that
are not so commonly
accessible and which
can take us even further.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
All of the peak performance
and self-help stuff out here
today is usually working
with tiferet and below.
It's working with psychology,
motivation, creativity,
strategies for
success, and so on.
That's all the lower
half of the tree.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Now as we go up
from tiferet, we're
working with more
spiritual principles,
deeper aspects of the soul
and mystical experiences.
Only through that
work do we come
into the fullness of
who we are and who we
can be in this physical life.
As we work from tiferet
up to gevurah, and chesed,
we're now working with what
we call the individuality.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Individuality is more
like our higher self.
It's our true uniqueness.
It's who we are as an
internal spirit being.
But at this part of the
tree, our individuality
is expressed through the
framework of the soul.
Now what does that mean?
Well, the soul is
our operating system.
It's how we perceive
information and how
we mediate energies between
the physical and the spiritual.
Soul is the part
of us that gives us
the ability to be conscious
in this physical life.
And this middle triad
brings us into the core self
so that we can reclaim
more of our power and love.
As we move beyond tiferet
into gevurah and chesed,
we aim to mature the child
self into the golden self.
It's about becoming
spiritual adults.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Now this is a very
dynamic place on the tree
because we're also learning
how to balance power with love
or severity with mercy.
It's balancing between the
warrior and the healer.
Now finding the
proper balance here
can be very challenging
because we also
start hitting up against
our cultural programming.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Much of our more deeply
ingrained cultural programs
interfere with this
level of the tree.
Either we're too
much of a pacifist
thinking we should
only be merciful
and giving all the time, or we
shut down our hearts to love.
Some go into being too hard,
seeking power and dominance
over others, and they become
competitive or even cruel.
And people tend to go towards
one of these two sides
rather than being in the balance
of both where they vacillate
between the two poles.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Now, ultimately, we need equal
measure of severity and mercy
in our lives.
It's a dynamic
balance at this level,
and only when we find that
does our heart truly open up.
And when this triad is
healed, the heart opens up,
and it gives us
the courage to face
our fears, our vulnerability,
and our weaknesses.
We gain the courage
to take up that sword
and cut away what doesn't serve
us and all of those attachments
that hold us back.
We become willing to sacrifice
our personality in order
to reclaim our divine self.
And it takes courage,
love, and self-acceptance
to truly be ourselves.
Now when we've come to
this level on the tree,
we've really come a long way
within our own life already.
And on a practical
level we've discovered
a lot about ourselves.
We know more of our
strengths and weaknesses,
and we've cultivated a greater
connection through our soul.
We're more connected
to our true self,
and we're maturing
on our journey.
And yet there's still a sense
of separation from the divine.
It's like the divine still feels
as if it's out there rather
than in here on a daily basis.
We may know it's here, and we
believe it's within us too.
But we don't have that
direct experience of it being
within us in our daily life.
Why is that?
Well, this perception of
separation is due to something
we call the abyss.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
The abyss is this
chasm that makes
us think that we're
separate from the divine
and from each other and from
the circumstances of our life.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Now what the ego does with this
is if it perceives something
as separate from
us, then we feel
we have to be in control or
on guard or, in other words,
our fears arise.
And we tend to project our
fears and our shadow side
onto the abyss.
So at this level of the tree,
there are all kinds of things
that we need to face here.
And this journey of
ascension shows us our abyss.
And if we want to move
past it and go beyond,
we have to face those fears
and shadow aspects of ourself.
And this is a
challenging place to be.
But through the
ascension process,
we become bolstered by divine
love, and strength, and courage
to help us conquer our fears.
We have the opportunity
to face them head on
and move forward regardless
of the obstacles.
When embarking on the
Kabbalistic ascension journey
through a lineage guided
by a well-trained teacher,
we have the opportunity to cross
the abyss through a hidden part
of the tree.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
This place is called
daath, and it's
a point of hidden knowledge.
Here we're accessing the hidden
mysteries and the teachings
of the inner Kabbalah, the
deep wisdom and knowledge
of the self as a divine being.
Many mysteries are revealed
at this level of the tree
through the oral teachings.
And we work to access and cross
the abyss through this point
of transition called daath.
And it brings us ultimately
into the supernal triad.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
It's not just a point of
reclaiming our divinity,
but it's a direct experience
of the divine self.
It's beautiful, and healing,
and an experience that
is truly beyond words.
Now some traditions say that
the conscious mind can't
go beyond gevurah and chesed.
Maybe the conscious mind
can't put words to it,
but we can go there.
It's all part of us.
We just need the right
keys to access it
from a place of awareness.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
It's powerful, profound,
and extremely healing
to experience the divine within.
No matter how
flawed we may feel,
we are loved, accepted,
forgiven, and embraced
by that divine love.
We are reminded of our own
divinity and our oneness
with all.
When we have this
experience not only
are we ready to reclaim that
divinity in our lives, what
Kabbalist call
reclaiming our crown,
but we also begin to
recognize that there
is a certain responsibility
that comes with this knowledge.
Reclaiming the crown of
our divinity brings with it
a responsibility to be an
active participant in creating
a better world through service.
Now what do we mean by service?
Well, service doesn't mean we
give everything away and live
an aesthetic life, nor is it
just about being a good person
and doing kind acts.
Service is about
empowering others
to progress toward
their divinity.
And on our path
reclaiming our divinity,
there are others who are
early on in their process,
and we can help them
to a degree that we've
walked that ground already.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Once we get to the top of
the tree, what happens next?
We let go of our old life,
and we then recreate ourselves
in our world in a way that's
more true to who we really are.
We're more aware of our
purpose and potential
and go forward into our life
ready to create a new malchut
or a new physical life.
This new malchut
is just above keter
on the tree above the tree.
And in this way, we
start the process again
and we work our way
up the next tree.
And this is what's
called Jacob's ladder.
And this is how we rise Earth up
to heaven tree by tree by tree.
Now, of course, there's
much more detail
that we could go into all
of this regarding what we
need at each step of the way.
At each sefirot on
the tree of life,
there's all kinds of
details including strengths,
and weaknesses, vises,
virtues, benefits to be gained.
There are specific qualities,
and deeper knowledge,
and understanding of
the spiritual forces
that work with us in
each part of the tree.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Now this process of
ascending the tree of life,
embarking on our
journey of healing
and reclaiming our full divinity
is one of the most important
things that we're here for.
And according to Kabbalah, it's
our purpose for being here.
But there's an even
greater purpose behind it.
There are woundings and
shattering that the universe
has gone through.
And as we go through
our own healing journey,
we're helping not only
the human collective
but we're also helping the
universe to heal and repair
and ultimately ascend.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Join me again as we
explore even deeper
into the mysteries
of Kabbalah and what
we call the shekhinah and the
healing process of tikkun.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
I'm Dr. Theresa Bullard.
Thank you for exploring
the mysteries of ascending
the tree of life with me in this
episode of "Mystery Teachings."
[MUSIC PLAYING]